so the class is broken up into two
sessions on Monday in a Wednesday class
each class is two hours long the typical
class runs we're at the beginning of the
semester there'll be more lecture than
towards Ian
blade and I have developed a style for
teaching the course which works very
well for us it's a bit like our town
where the actors go through their paces
and every once in a while they stop and
the stage manager comes on stage and
makes an editorial comment that couldn't
be conveyed in a direct fashion we
evolved it perhaps because blade is
charismatic he's very effective at the
teaching of the course he knows the
material he lives the material but I've
had a lot of the experiences in industry
about how this material actually plays
out
so typically blade will do the bulk of
the instructing in a very Socratic
manner which is part of what makes the
class effective blade is very very good
at evoking from the students their ideas
about what is design meanwhile I will
listen to the progress and where blade
touches on a subject which can be
enhanced or or embellished by talking
about real-world experience relating to
that particular topic I'll chime in
blade is wonderful about stopping just
about in mid-sentence and allowing me to
work with the students just a little bit
to engage them on this to share with
them about it and then I go back and sit
down and blade continues right where he
left off
the lecturers are injured
with activities so students will do some
hands-on activities every let's say half
hour probably at the limit is about
halfway through about an hour through
they'll do set they'll have to do
something no matter what because you
want to keep students attention out
there'll be some classes which are like
I said primarily lecture based some
classes where it's a lot of students
working in groups and then we're
stopping the work asking a question
sharing ideas and evaluating it some
classes run in a race for kradic way so
we're really having them come to
conclusion so a class on ethics for
example runs better when you teach it
Socratic ly because they need to become
engaged with the material and if you're
if you're just saying you know here are
examples of ethical problems and here's
their solutions they can check the box
right okay yes I get that that makes
sense to me or maybe there's something
where they don't quite get and you could
bring up spending discussions but I
think it's more successful to have them
think about it and be able to then even
argue in class and so you find our
version points and you have different
students hash them out and you'll find
that sometimes other students will come
in having turned their brain on and
being sparked by an idea and say wait a
second no no I think they're right and
because we have we use name cards that
have the name on the front and the back
the students can see each other's name
and can say you know what Joyce said was
was really good no I like that that was
an important point because they can see
each other so it connects just a class
to be able to start learning together
which makes the learning process
actually very important for those kinds
of classes to be in person the class is
meant to have a lot of interaction as
much as possible really at the end of it
at the end of a big school tonight from
3 to 5 p.m. they could be tired and they
probably definitely late the night
before so they probably definitely tired
around that time so you want to make
sure that you're keeping them
entertained and engaged with the
material I mean it's really every class
has great material I mean any class can
have great material but the attitude I
think is that if you get your students
to be engaged
intellectually they'll learn it faster
and when you're trying to shift their
thinking and not just simply explain a
concept but have them think differently
then you need to engage them even more
because you need to change the way their
brains are functioning and get snaps to
fire even differently
we bring in outside speed
some of the talks and the outside
speakers are an eclectic mix in some
cases we'll bring in someone from the
engineering faculty who is particularly
gifted at communicating mechanical
engineering design skills or electrical
or chemical because we want to give the
student there there's there tend to be
some discipline unique ways of thinking
and we want to give the students an idea
of what the broad range is but other
times we bring in someone who seems
rather off-the-wall we brought in
someone who has started two or three
restaurants in the Boston area and you
say a restaurant or what does that have
to do with engineering and the students
come to the class but don't really
expect to get anything of value until
they find out that designing a
restaurant is a really significant
design process you have to look at what
type what do the users want how do you
greet them at the restaurant what type
of food do you have how do you design
the space how do you make the patron and
the restaurant feel welcome how do you
make the staff function effectively
there are many many aspects and to see
someone in front of the room who is not
an engineer and yet who is using some of
the same engineer thinking that you use
to solve a problem that you never
thought much about because when you go
to a restaurant you just hope that the
food will come and then it'll taste good
and it won't be too expensive and that
your favorite dish will be there but you
you tend not to pay any attention to how
were you greeted by the hostess how are
you seated what are the waitstaff doing
how does the cook working in the kitchen
and you begin to realize that there are
many more dimensions in the world that
you're interacting with then you pay
attention to
if we have a quiz in class we administer
our quiz we swap all the quizzes we
review all the answers
quizzes tend to have a lot of the
questions repeated on each quiz so they
they didn't know the answer the first
time they should know the second time
it'll definitely the third time because
we review it in class we'll spend
several minutes reviewing that quiz to
make sure students can use it as a
learning opportunity because I do want
to do a diagnostic to see what are they
getting are they doing the reading I'm
welcome to do the reading it's how I
test for it but I also want to make sure
that they're learning if they and if
they haven't done the reading maybe they
learned a little bit from this they may
have some different questions so I'll
have someone great and then give a
result to see what the contour of the
grades are even though they've already
swapped papers and their own grading
students go through and check all them
again so they can understand what the
contour is so I can understand our
students not reading the book yet maybe
that maybe we signed the book too soon
they weren't able to get to the
bookstore soon enough or maybe they're
in a real crunch time and they weren't
able to review some material so we try
to do diagnostic to see what's happening
the teaching assistants will take notes
one teachers will take notes during the
class of everything we discuss so we can
tune out the slides and topics later on
there may be an example that we haven't
used before that either is topical
that's you know because now a company
releases a new product we wanna be able
to incorporate or there'll be a new way
to articulate something I'll say oh
that's a really good way that we that we
were able to articulate this idea or a
really good moment that happened here in
class let's think about how to bring
that into the curriculum so we're always
taking notes about each class